Hi I'm Richard Duerr, and i'm from the fifth generation of
Duerr's, the oldest family owned jam manufacturer in England.
And together today with my partner in crime Paul Dineen
Aye
Who's something of a master baker
We're going to bring you the best in traditional hearty puddings in
the first of our online mini series baking for boys
Today we're going to be doing a beautiful Jam Roly
Poly and the ingredients we need are as follows;
Fairly simple this recipe, firstly we need some self-raising
flour, so i'll pass it over to Richard
tip that into the processor
Butter. Now bare in mind it's hugely important this butter comes straight
from the fridge and its cold because we're going
to make a lovely crumb so Richard you take that and chop
it into a small a piece as possible for me
So just whilst you're doing that I'm going to
take this vanilla out of the vanilla pod.
there's nothing quite as good as the seeds from a nice piece of vanilla
Ok, we can pulse that, that would be great
Great, you want to keep this running until all the butter has disappeared
ok nearly there now, let's have a look
Looks pretty good to me, thank you
ok, so we're going to make this into a dough now.
What we're looking for is a kind of scone consistency
for those that are used to it. It's very important
that you get a nice moist 'oof' roly poly
and so we need to bake in steam
to do that and Richard just explain
We've got the oven pre-heated to 200ºC and on the bottom shelf we've got a
little baking tray that I've filled a third full with boiling water
Ok, so into our flour and butter mix we're going to add the syrup,
just blend that in and now we'll start to add the milk
It's quite a wet, quite a damp dough
Bit like a scone dough would you say?
When it gets to that stage, a little bit of flour on your
work surface, a little bit of flour on your rolling pin
that's the kind of thickness that you're looking for
About a quarter of an inch for those
who still work in old money
This is the best bit now, we get a nice jam. I've got a nice
raspberry jam here made with beautiful raspberries. Get it all spread out beautifully.
ooh look at that
How we doing there chef?
beautiful
I've over-jammed it! Now we've go here a bit of tin foil
and a bit of baking paper that we've greased already
Bring the top and bottom together and crease. Get a nice line
and crease it to make the beginnings of the parcel
You don't want it tight, you do not want it tight to the dough
It'll increase in size while it's cooking
We're going to do exactly the same with the tin foil
Ok Richard, I think that's ready to go in the
oven if you want to put the oven on.
Perfect, so in to a preheated oven, as I said, in here we've
got a little tray which is filled two thirds with boiling water.
This is 180 for a conventional oven, 160 for
a fan oven. In for an hour
Well, something smells good, perhaps it's time to check on the jam roly poly
let's have a look, see how it's looking
Careful of the steam
blimey, glasses have steamed up
Now as expected it's expanded somewhat in there
So there's some custard or some cream there Richard if you'd like
Cream for me
And I'll go with the traditional custard
beautiful! And there we are, Raspberry Jam roly poly